## Topic
While some people think that the Olympic Games help foster peace among nations, others feel that they cost too much for the host cities and that the money should be used to solve important domestic issues such as unemployment instead.

- Write an argumentative essay.
- Argue either for OR against the Olympic Games. Give reasons to support your point of view.

## Script
Siting in a stadium, the reason for the joys of your surrounding audience is clear. An Olympic player jumps through loops and holes, competing for a single gold madal (medal). Today, the Olympic games have developed from its infancy from ancient Rome to a global competition held every four years, featuring just about each and every nation from around the world, and sending a clear message for sportsmenship, peace and equality. While there are immense benefits for holding the Olympic games, negative effects are also often discussed, namely the huge losses recorded by host countries. Both sides of the argument have (has?) its merits, however, the benefits that it bring outweigh the negatives. Therefore, it is my conviction to support holding the Olympic games for three reasons: long-term economic growths, its effects on a global scale and its health benefits.

First, holding the Olympic games brings long-term economic stability and growth. Take the example of the Olympic Games held in Rome (in 1960). As a world-renowned heritage site (W), Rome houses a few of the world's most valuable man-made structures. When the Olympic games was held, there was an increase in the number of visitors to these tourist attractions, resulting in huge profits from ticket sales. Apart from the short-term benefits the Olympic Games bring to tourism, a positive image will be embedded into the tourists way of thinking, which may lead them to revisit the country, bringing in long-term gains from the tourism sector and creating job opportunities to tackle unemployment. Statistics from the country's annual financial reports indicated a year-over-year growth of 5% GDP in ({in GDP} in) tourism and its associated service industries, for example, catering and hospitality. Although the initial investment in holding the Olympic Games would pose an immense financial burden to the host countries, it is largely compensated in a short amount of time, even acting as a booster in fostering economic stability and growth.

Second, holding the Olympics put much needed emphasis on health and fitness, improving public health. While some critics may argue that host counties have the responsibility to ensure (whether) their local citizens may lead a better life - which is morally justifiable and perferred (preferred), we cannot miss out on the fact that a good life isn't simply limited to prosperity, and health isn't simply made up of the component of without diseases (lack of diseases). (The) Olympic Games with its aim for all athletes to compete is instrumental to nuture (nurture) the development of community health. Take the Beijing Olympics as an example. In the bustling and hardworking Chinese society, people often ignore health and fitness, putting them to the backburner of things to do. After the Olympics was held, more emphasis was put in this regard. Nowadays, people engage actively and happily in what is known as "plaza dance" after work in order to stay healthy with the fellow neighbours, and spend their weekends at the growing number of community sports centre(s). According to a research by the Beijing Health Department, the number of citizens suffering from obesity and cardiovascular diseases have declined sharply since 2010. Instead, indexes indicating happiness has taken a steep climb. This would have been a health professional's dream as their (there) would be less lives lost to inactivity. Therefore, it can be concluded that the Olympic games promote greater health benefits in society, which can improve the quality of life for countries alike.

Finally, the Olympic Games bring wonderful global effects and not just localized effects (ones). As aforementioned, critics often pinpoint the need to solve societal issues, such as unemployment or inequal access to schooling as a deterent from holding the Olympic Games. However, we ought to understand the positive gains every country may get (receive). By holding the Olympic Games, it promotes peace and equality; By hollding Olympic Games, it removes racism and extremism; By holding the Olympic Games, it puts cooperation to the table (at the forefront of the global discussion). Because of the organizers strong beliefs that competitions must be fair and issues must be addressed peacefully - with strict rules enacted for all athletes to follow and violations being resolved in courts but not by stirring up controversy, the world has replaced the traditional Cold War mindset of nuclear bombs with a(n) utopia for multi-nation projects. (clusmy) The fairness also ensured that all ethnics of people had equal judging and chances to win the games, which acted as a detergent that washed away the anciet mindsets of sexual racism and discrimination to black people. Moreover, since the Olympic Games is organized a (is an) global consortium, the message is delivered wide and far. Nowadays, many people still recall the swimming competition of the Sydney Olympics where an African participant(s) displayed the sportsmenship to never give up, and with the audience encouraging him to continue. Instead of racism towards a supposedly lower tier of people (society), we learnt to respect others (no matter the sex or ethnicity). This is why the Olympic Games as a global phenomenon would be better suited than localized benefits in just one country.

However, some critics may still be unconvinced, referring to the abundance of global competitions and projects that could achieve the same effects. It may be true that the Olympic Games has already played its role to promote coperation, but it still has many redeeming qualities other projects do not have (over other projects) - recognition and publicity. For one, almost everyone would be able to correlate the five rings with the geography of the major continents. (?) The recognition factor creates great national pride for different nations, as well as encouraging the public to watch the competitions. It also has greater publicity, often syndicated by major cable networks and television stations around the world. Therefore, the reason to support the Olympic Games does not stop at its role in promoting peace or the benefits it brings, but also its ability to be used as a highly recognizable tool for promoting the right values. (→ clumsy)

To encapsulate, holding the Olympic Games bring benefits to the (X) individual sectors (?) of a country, public health of all nations and the human race as a whole. Examples from different years of the Olympics was (were) discussed to prove the benefits of holding the Olympic Games, as well as a discussion on the rules of these games. It is hoped that more countries could host the Olympic Games, so that every nation would enjoy the huge benefits that it brings, and to expose the world to the (different) ways that it improves the human race.

## Corrections
