With the advancement of artificial intelligence, many suggest that human jobs will be replaced by artificial intelligence eventually.
Write a debate speech for or against the following motion: "Artificial Intelligence will take away human jobs eventually."

---
Good morning adjudicators, teachers and our respected opponents,

Today our motion is ‘Artificial Intelligence will take away human jobs eventually’. As the representative of the opposition side, I hold a firm belief that today’s motion is under no circumstances justifiable. Prior to elucidating our arguments, May I ask the affirmative side a few questions: who invented the artificial intelligence from the outset? In the absence of human beings, could the AI have prospered in recent decades? Without human beings’ intelligence and unrelenting effort in inventing AI, would we still be surrounded by such a vast array of convenient gadgets? Siri on Macbook, food-delivery robots, and the self-driving functions in Tesla – all of them are developed by the human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, our side’s argument is simple: we fervently believe that AI is wholly subject to human beings, and is inferior to human beings in terms of its capacity to handle high-order work. In no way can the robots supersede us.

Our respected affirmative side asserts that artificial intelligence is so smart that human beings will be threatened by their intelligence and efficiency. They claim that the AI robots have excellent logical and computational ability, and need not rest or have food like humans do, and thus they will supersede human beings in the workplace sooner or later. While the above argument seems logical at first glance, it does not hold much water at all if we examine it in great detail. Our respected affirmative, will you be highly cautious about using Siri on your phone, for fear that it will be smarter than you? Will you be intimidated by the automated driving system of Tesla? Will you consider the robot used in medical diagnosis a threat to all physicians? The answer is patently no, isn’t it? The aforementioned examples vividly illustrate that artificial intelligence is nothing more than administrative task assistants who can at best handle trivial or straight-forward tasks. Many artificial intelligence robots, programmed with the mere function to perform administrative work, cannot replace us completely. Also consider the AI machines in the operation theatres of hospitals. While they do help diagnose the types and positions of cancers in the patients, it is physicians who eventually conduct the final treatment, be it surgical removal or chemotherapy. So ladies and gentlemen, as we can see patently, human beings always take the dominant roles while the AI machines are nothing more than assistants of various kinds of work. On no account can AI take over human jobs completely.

In addition, what makes human beings stand out from the AI robots are our emotional intelligence, our empathy and sympathy, rather than our intellectual development. Some human jobs such as teachers, psychologists and social workers, lay great store by the intuitive natures that humans uniquely possess, such as empathy and sympathy. Our precious affirmative, do you genuinely reckon that AI robots possess such skills? If you’re not convinced, allow me to bring up the following scenario for your consideration: suppose now a student is crying in the middle of the class, losing control of his emotions and annoying his classmates, can the AI appreciate the emotions of the student, comfort him and get the class right back on track, under such extenuating and chaotic circumstances? Hard, if not impossible! On the contrary, it is the human teachers, filled with human emotions, empathy and sympathy, who could put the situation under control by demonstrating understanding to the student, empathising with the student, eventually calming him and resolving the whole crisis with ease! Given that human teachers have once been in the stages of toddlers, teenagers and growing adults, and are sapients who grow with experiences, they know exactly what to do when they are met with such difficulties! Without teachers’ help in facilitating the harmonic and holistic betterment of the class with human instincts, the class would be chaotic!

If it’s not sufficient to convince the affirmative side, let’s put yourselves in the shoes of other workers, say a psychologist or a social worker. When a psychologist or a social worker is conducting an appointment, treatment or examination for the patient and the patient suddenly bursts into tears or goes insane, would a robotic humanoid be patient enough to slowly talk some sense into the patient and manage to convince the patient to think positively? I’m afraid that the patients will simply disregard the robots, casting doubt on their capacity. In view of this, little room is there for debate that AI will not take away human jobs eventually.

Alongside the emotional intelligence of human beings, the other reason that leads to the inability of AI robots to replace human beings is that the former has a tendency to make mistakes, and it is for the human beings to remedy their defects. I suppose all of you are no stranger to the casualties caused by the self-driving functions of the electric vehicles Uber. Sophisticated as the self-driving technology is, not only has it crossed six red lights during a test, but it has even claimed the life of an innocent pedestrian in the US. Will you still dare to stand with the stance that the artificial intelligence can substitute human beings? If there had not been scientists to investigate and rectify the mistakes, more disastrous consequences would have cropped up! In other words, human beings do play an irreplaceable role in monitoring AI to ensure its smooth operation and unblemished performance of duties.