# One-sided argumentative
Misery of Mankind - Why We Should Not Use AI

*State-of-the-art* and interactive chatbots, be it ChatGPT or Alexa, are *permeating* every part of our lives. The emergence of Artificial Intelligence and its potential to surpass human cognitive abilities have *sparked a contentious debate*. <span class="hi-green">Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, has pointed out that <u>"robots will do everything better than us"</u>, but he also asserted that <u>"with AI we are summoning the demon."</u></span> On the one-hand, advocates perceive this innovative and sophisticated technology as the key that <span class="hi-orange">opens the door to an in-depth learning voyage</span>. On the other hand, sceptics deem that <span class="hi-orange">AI undermines our thinking skills</span>, if not wrecking havoc on our fundamental cognitive development. It is strongly believed that the <span class="hi-blue">introduction of artificial intelligence is detrimental to the mankind</span>, and the <u>rationales will be explained as follows</u>.

To commence with, <span class="hi-blue">artificial intelligence assistants stifle creativity, which is indispensable in the development of society</span>. Despite being able to imitate our thinking, their minds are not going to *beat up* our vast and *limitless* imagination through complex *neurons*. <span class="hi-green">Elon Musk</span> imagines space travel, and hence he founded SpaceX. <span class="hi-green">Steve Jobs</span> *originated* phones and computers, and hence he established Apple. <span class="hi-green">J.K. Rowling</span> fantasizes about the magical world, and hence she wrote Harry Potter. It is undeniable that we harness our imagination to *pave the way* for world development. Nonetheless, these virtual assistants adopted *rigid, ossified and predefined* sets of rules, failing to invent beyond our intelligence. <span class="hi-green">The more we rely on AI, the fewer creative and innovative inventors there will be.</span> Without creativity and originality, advancement in all aspects, from arts to music, from economy to sustainable development, will cease. Coupled with our reliance on soulless AI, <span class="hi-blue">the lack of creativity in robotic automation will be detrimental to social development</span>.

Besides, <span class="hi-blue">artificial intelligence may create the spread of inaccurate and false information</span>. Despite the intention to provide reliable and accurate information to users, there are multiple instances in which these systems <u>generate misleading and erroneous information</u> for users. Research has shown that AI <span class="hi-green">fails in basic logical reasoning</span>, not to mention simple arithmetic calculations. What is worse, many users are under the false impression AI provides up-to-date information, without knowing that most only stores information before October in 2023. In addition to the malfunctions, some frauds (fraudsters?) even <span class="hi-green">manipulate AI apps such as Deepfakes to impersonate celebrities and family members in video calls</span>, in a bid to deceive victims and their families to pay. It is evident that AI systems could indeed foster the spread of disinformation, thereby triggering catastrophes, if not crimes. To make matters worse, their databases originated from the Internet, where <span class="hi-green">content farms</span> and yet-to-fact-check information flourish. In this line of thinking, *fallacious* and *unfounded* information spawned by these robots is *indubitably* adding fuel to the *proliferation* of misleading information.

Some critics argue that <span class="hi-blue">artificial intelligence provides a way for greater learning efficiency</span>. It may sound plausible at first glance. Upon closer examination, however, it would be a misguided claim. Versatile as they are, artificial intelligence could swiftly generate answers to questions correspondingly. Thus, students of all ages will be *tempted and succumb* to the temptation by employing AI to complete their duties and assignments. As we are *spoon-fed* by these chatbots, without brainstorming and analyzing the issues by ourselves, our <span class="hi-green">critical thinking and analytical skills will be marred</span>. Not only would we lose the opportunity to embark on thoughtful exploration and debates, but we would also surrender our *intrinsic* curiosity and inborn ability. Take <span class="hi-green">Photomaths</span> as an example, which (where) the artificial intelligence programmed in the app is used by a *raft* of students to complete their mathematics assignments. Integration, factorization, and differentiation - you name it - can be solved easily by these bots. Nonetheless, learners would neither experience the thrill of reaching solutions nor gain profound insights. Undermining education goals, it is *conspicuous* that over-reliance towards AI places our problem-solving skills *in peril*.

Taking these factors into consideration, artificial intelligence is indeed a misery for mankind, *jeopardizing* creativity and the capacity for innovation, to name just a few issues. Although the development of artificial intelligence is *inevitable*, we should not overlook its potential risks and challenges. It is of paramount importance to address these concerns *proactively* to ensure that AI benefits humanity as a whole. It is *high time* we became the <span class="hi-green">masters of AI</span>, maintaining our own <u>creativity</u> and ensures that technology serves humanity's best interests.
