Many pop singers or actors have become popular idols among teenagers. Some even regard them as role models.
- Write a debate speech.
- Argue for or against the motion that ‘pop singers or actors are suitable role models for teenagers.’

---
Today our motion is ‘pop singers or actors are suitable role models for teenagers’. As the representative of the opposition side, I hold a firm belief that today’s motion is under no circumstances justifiable. Prior to delving into our arguments, may I take this opportunity to ask our respected affirmative a couple of questions: do most celebrities have a healthy body image? Do they have a good value judgment in general? Can they really convey positive messages to teenagers? The arguments of our side are simple: we fervently believe that most pop singers and actors distort the beauty perception and even the value judgment of society, and hence are not suitable role models for teenagers.

To begin with, the existence of pop stars is sending an erroneous message to the teenagers that having good physical beauty is tantamount to acquiring success. With the advancement of the beauty industry, virtually all pop stars nowadays have undergone cosmetic surgery, not to mention the heavy make-up they wear. They seek to present their perfect image of the goddess and hunky boy, rather than merely showing their most natural and authentic sides to the general public. Bombarded by the alluring and glamorous pop stars who frequently post their photos with slim bodies, big eyes, and prominent noses on social media, how can teenagers not be influenced by their elegance and feel comfortable with their imperfect appearances? As such, that teenagers conform to such unrealistically high beauty standard is nothing short of an inevitable result! Worse still, if teenagers fail to attain such a flawless appearance, they may even suffer from various illnesses, be they eating disorders or social appearance anxiety, just because they want to look as perfect as K-pop stars such as Lisa from Blackpink. Seen in this light, as a result of the unrealistic high beauty standard created by pop stars, they are definitely not suitable role models for teenagers.

In addition to that, what makes pop singers or actors not suitable to be role models for teenagers is that they may distort the value judgment of teenagers. Unlike adults who are mature enough to distinguish right from wrong, teenagers are immature to decide whether their idols do the right things for their value judgment is still developing. A case in point would be Kris Wu, who was involved in scandals about sexual harassment and taking drugs. While the evidence regarding his crimes was clearly posted on social media, many of his fans, who are only sixteen-year-old or seventeen-year-old, defended him and left comments like ‘even if he sexually harassed that girl, he did nothing wrong as long as he is not convicted as a criminal and sent to jail!’ and ‘ he is entrapped by the whistleblower, let’s save him from the police station and beat the whistleblower!’ Our dearest opponents, with pop stars of such distorted value judgment, do you still think that celebrities can be suitable role models for teenagers? Can you ensure that every pop star has a good morality? I’m not justifying that all pop stars have distorted value judgment and do bad things, but one celebrity who has significant influence like Kris Wu is already enough to put teenagers’ value judgment in jeopardy. That teenagers go astray and violate the laws are definitely the last things we want to see!

Our respected affirmative side asserts that the celebrities can be so inspirational that they will encourage teenagers to pursue their dreams and be more confident through sharing their own life experiences. While I do not deny that some pop stars may be inspirational, whether youngsters will truly be enlightened by them and become more confident is another story. Let’s be pragmatic and put yourself in the shoes of a typical youngster: will you truly compare yourselves to some young pop stars? Will you feel inferior just because you are not doing as well as them? Will you be less confident because you realize the gap between you and your idol? Only when teenagers have the money, resources, and opportunities as pop stars can they genuinely be confident to pursue their own dreams. Therefore, instead of being inspired by the life experiences of pop stars, teenagers are more likely to fall prey to comparing themselves to the triumphant pop stars in a negative way.

To conclude, pop singers or actors can distort teenagers’ beauty standard and value judgment. Let’s not forget that the primary responsibility of pop singers and actors is to entertain the audience. Being role models to inspire and educate teenagers is never their job. Therefore, pop singers or actors are not suitable role models for teenagers.