> In light of the soaring unemployment rate, the government has proposed to subsidise $10,000 to some employers that are hiring talents. Should the government subsidise companies in the business sectors, or companies in the arts industry?
> - Write a debate speech.
> - Argue whether the government should subsidise companies in the business sector or companies in the arts industry.

Good morning adjudicators and our respected opponents,

Today our debate motion is “whether the government should subsidize companies in business sectors, or companies in the art industry. As the representative of the latter, I hold a firm belief that the arts industry is under all circumstances worth investing. Prior to elucidating my arguments, may I take this opportunities to ask our respected opponents a couple of questions: How much has the government invested in the business sector from the outset of pandemic? In the absence of arts, could Hong Kong be dubbed as a “Vibrant cultural diversified city”? The answer is patently a “no”. Ladies and gentlemen, our side’s argument is simple: We fervently believe that the arts industry is currently in dire straits and only through subsidising art companies, namely music, film, design or visual arts industries could we retain these talents in our metropolis. In no way should the business sector outweigh the value of arts.

In commence with, subsidizing the arts industry is tantamount to retaining the cultural diversity of Hong Kong. Let’s take a closer look at the local TV film and industry. In the wake of the pandemic, many if not all, business companies have shifted to a “work from home” mode, in which their employees are able to contribute without having to go to the office. However, our precious opponents, do you genuinely think that those working in the arts industry are as lucky to be able to earn a living under such a hard time, when all such filming is forced to terminate, coupled with a high risk of infection of the virus? If you’re not convicted, allow me to bring up the current situation in the film industry for your consideration: all cinemas have been closed for more than half a year and in no way should the film companies release their product to the public, let alone to generate revenue for their companies. Seen in this light, an array of small local film companies are teetering at the brink of bankruptcy. Had there not been any subsidy provided to the arts industry, it would lead to a further crackdown of cultural diversity, in the sense that hiring local talents requires an enormous investment for training and performance. Not only could subsidising the arts industry ease the tension stemming from financial burden in the short term, but it could also go a long way towards local cultural development in the long run. As a local citizen, we don’t have to exaggerate in saying that subsidising the arts industry could stamp out the soaring unemployment rate, but suffice for us to conclude that the art pieces created by art companies could retain the cultural diversity.

Standing alongside the cultural development, what makes it important to subsidise the arts industry as opposed to the business sector is that the former contributes to the enhancement of community cohesion. Gone are the days when street performance of arts, such as busking, photographing, calligraphy or arts painting, was nothing short of the daily activities of artists. Lamentably, all these no longer exist. I suppose all of you are no stranger to the abolition of Sai Yeung Street pedestrian district in Mong Kok, as a result of which hundreds of musicians and artists are left with no choice but to lose their jobs. Compared to the business sectors, which have been flourishing over the years and possess a glamorous and affluent facade, the compares in the arts industry are no longer perceived as a crucial constituent in society. What has been disregarded by the government is the unremitting efforts contributed by the artists behind the financial hub. Imagine yourself being a manager of artists and where your artists can perform is merely confined to the streets in Mong Kok or Tsim Sha Tsui. Would you not feel isolated or demoralised for being overlooked by society or the government when all your blood, sweat and tears devoted to music training are all in no vain? While I do not deny that business sectors have their own economic value to be subsidized, it is also worth noticing that no account should the government turn a blind eye to the arts industry and pay undue emphasis on business development.

Our respected opponent asserts that business sector should under all circumstances be subsidised, as they are so important that not only do business companies form the backbone of local economic growth, but they are also the only way out to ameliorate the unemployment rate. While the above argument seems logical at first glance, may I warn the opponents that this is actually a false logical deduction – subsidising the business sector does not necessarily lead to the elimination of the unemployment problem. Let’s be pragmatic: If you were a Human Resources manager of a business company, how would you spend the subsidy wisely in hopes of maximizing the profit gain? Would you hire local graduates or international talents from around the world? I believe any reasonable man would choose the latter, for international business talents are more competitive than the local ones. In this sense, isn’t it preposterous to claim that local unemployment rate could be alleviated? After all, the arts industry are more worth subsidising, given that there are a plethora of young and unemployed artists who are so talented that they excel in multifarious aspects, ranging from music, drawing to acting. Were we to think about the large number of beneficiaries, we could recognise that the art industry should be the one being subsidised.

All in all, let us forget that arts are equally important to economic development and it is high time the government laid great store by local cultural development. We urge the opponents not to be too doom and gloom, underestimate the number of people that benefit from the subsidy. Once again, it is our firm conviction that the companies of arts industry should be subsidized. Thank you!