As captain of the debate team you have been asked to write a debate speech. The task is to argue whether individuals who illegally share music online should be put in jail. Write the speech and include three reasons to support your stance.

---
Good morning adjudicators, teachers and our respected opponents,

Today our debate motion is ‘whether individuals who illegally share music online should be put in jail’. As a representative of the opposition side, I hold a firm belief that under no circumstances should people who illegally share music online be put in jail. Prior to elucidating my arguments, may I take this opportunity to ask our respected affirmative side a couple of questions: Can you vouch that you have never forwarded any copyrighted music on social media? Won’t you feel deflated when you listen to a pleasant pop song yet cannot share it with your best friends online, for fear that you will end up behind the bars? Can you imagine how many teenagers‘ lives will be ruined if this ludicrous policy is implemented, as sharing music is already a norm to them nowadays? Ladies and gentlemen, our side’s argument is simple: We fervently believe that the consequence of putting one in jail after illegally sharing music online is so unreasonable that the general citizens’ welfare will be compromised, and the development of the local music industry will also be put in jeopardy.

To commence with, putting individuals who illegally share music online is tantamount to jeopardizing a majority of kids and teenagers‘ future. Under this technology-dominated era and the impact of globalization, everyone can have access to music videos from all around the world at their fingertips, such as through YouTube or Spotify. Unlike mature adults who know well about the laws which are against piracy, kids or teenagers at a tender age usually lack awareness about the legal consequences of breaching copyrights. Coupled with the popularity of famous pop singers like Billie Ellish and Ariana Grande among juveniles nowadays, sharing their music online has already become commonplace among the teens. So may I ask our opponents to put themselves into the shoes of these youngsters: If this policy is set up, can you picture how your entire future is crippled by ending up in jail, only because of your accidental sharing of copyrighted music online? Won’t this experience be such a heavy blow to your life even after you have left the jail, when you recollect how your naive intention of spreading good music to others caused you to be in jail? Compared to mere financial penalty, the legal consequence of putting individuals in jail is simply too unreasonable, if not ludicrous / ridiculous / preposterous especially when the act of breaching copyrights has nothing to do with severe crimes liking robbing or murdering. As we can see, little room is left to debate that this policy definitely should not be passed at the expense of / to the detriment of youngsters‘ future.

Apart from the deleterious impact this policy has on adolescents' future, on no account should we overlook the fact that this policy serves as an impediment to / a hindrance to / a hurdle to / a barrier to / a stumbling block to the development of the local music industry. I admit that the initiative of this policy, which is to protect artists‘ copyrights and the originality of their work, is commendable itself. However, can we take a moment to envisage what will happen if no one shares copyrighted songs on Instagram, Youtube or Twitter anymore? Nowadays, virtually everyone is sharing the copyrighted music of their idols online, whether it be Mirror band‘s music videos or Hins Cheung’s and Serrini’s sentimental songs. According to a user experience survey conducted by Instagram, more than 70% teens share copyrighted music on their Instagram profile through posts or stories. By doing this, people can spread the positive motifs of the songs, glorify the stunning visuals or lyrics of the music videos, and accentuate the importance of local music. However, think about what will happen if they are to put in jail after sharing copyrighted songs! With such significant deterrent effects, they will cease sharing music undeniably, in a bid to prevent bearing such deplorable legal consequences! Very soon, little will people know and recognize the local pop music, given that there will be no one sharing music online. In other words, this policy is nothing more than a hindrance to the development of local music.

The affirmative side may contend that individuals who illegally share music online should be put in jail, in the sense that this punishment is threatening enough to prevent people from infringing copyrights by sharing music online. While the above argument seems logical at first glance, it does not hold water at all if we examine the argument in great detail — putting individuals who illegally share music in jail cannot indoctrinate the public with the moral of respecting artists‘ creations at all. According to the research of Federation Youth Group, around 70% of teenagers labour under the misconception that sharing copyrighted music online does no harm to its creators. This clearly manifests that it is juveniles’ lack of knowledge about the issue of copyrights that leads to their behavior of illegally sharing music online. However, putting people who do that in jail cannot instill knowledge about copyrights into the public, such as how important copyrights are, and what to do to protect copyrights. It can at best pose a deterrent effect to dissuade people from doing so in the short term, but it is not a long-term solution, considering that a majority of people still don‘t have a deeper grasp about the copyright issue. In this sense, isn’t it preposterous to claim that this policy can solve the root of the problem and can efficiently put a halt to people‘s act of illegally sharing music online? After all, when we take a panoramic view to this issue, we can easily conceive that rather than really making people learn to protect copyrights, this policy only threatens them not to commit crime. Thus, I suppose any reasonable man would believe that this policy is definitely not the perfect antidote to the problem of piracy.

All in all, judging from the well-documented analysis above, our side holds a firm conviction that putting individuals who illegally share music in jail is not an ideal policy. Therefore, may we urge our dearest opponents not to overlook the drawbacks of the policy, but also to ponder other better alternative ways to contend with piracy. Thank you!