You have participated in a debate competition. Write a debate speech for or against the motion ‘that
students should be given a gap year before the start of university to explore their own interests’.

---
#### Sample 1

Good morning adjudicators, fellow opponents, ladies and gentlemen,

Today’s motion ‘that students should be given a gap year before the start of university to explore their own interests’. I am the first speaker of the affirmative side. Our team firmly believe that the motion shall stand, based on three main arguments - the essential time demanded for revitalisation, benefits on whole-person development, and the practical need for consideration of students’ career choices.

To begin with, having a gap year before entering the unfamiliar while challenging chapter of life in university is crucial for the mental well-being of students. Imagine devoting relentless effort to preparing for the public examination, working day and night for three continuous years in senior forms of secondary school, doing countless exercises and drillings, and going through your notes over and over. Such mode of studying is for sure, mentally exhausting and frustrating, with the constant stress upon students to push their limits in order to strive for academic excellence. According to the survey on mental health of secondary school graduates conducted by the Mental Health Association of Hong Kong, an organisation concerned about the psychological well-being of citizens, over 84% of respondents experience frequent mood-swings, with 73% of them suggesting academic pressure as major source of the issue, while more than 80% of them believe that a resting period longer than 7 months would be beneficial to them. It is totally understandable that when the mentally-draining revision eventually comes to an end with the public exam, many would find themselves desperate for an extended period of time to take a break. After years of putting countless effort in their education and passing the nearly traumatising examination in their lives, shouldn’t students deserve to receive adequate time for rest? Not only can students refresh their minds from the previous exhaustion through having a gap year, but they can also enjoy their lives for a while, leaving academics aside, and thereby, fully charged again to be ready for their university after the gap year.

Apart from serving as the period for revitalisation, another prominent reason for providing a gap year before students step into university is to complement the unique life experiences lost under the current education system. Contrary to popular perception of a gap year which many erroneously presumed it purely as an extended holiday promoting the idling tendency within teenagers, gap year is in fact, productive and fruitful. Secondary school graduates are allowed sufficient time to freely explore various specks of life, with a whole year blanked for them to fill in with their own colours. I would like to raise a few questions for our fellow opponents: in senior forms of secondary school, have you ever had months to travel to foreign countries, immersing in cultures completely different from local environment? Have you been given multiple weeks just to enrolling in extra-curricular courses to acquire new skills or develop special personal interests, from video editing to stargazing? And have you been able to take internship so to be more prepared for your future career? The answer is clearly no. Students are barely given any opportunities for students to discover their own potentials in today’s society which is so stressed on academic excellence that almost every minute of the graduates’ previous years have been occupied by studying. Given that many seldom have time to dig into other aspects of life, having a gap year undeniably compensate those missing pieces by enriching their experiences. Therefore, our team hold strong belief that a gap year, boosting the personal growth of students, should be allowed before the beginning of university.

While our fellow opponents may contend that delaying university study for a year would leave students a retarded progress on reaching their life goals, such claim is absolutely untenable. The prerequisite for one to be ‘in progress’ is that the person has determined clear and concrete goals to achieve. Yet, the cruel reality is quite the opposite – only a few of the many have figured out their desired career pathways before choosing their university majors. With teachers busily going through textbook content at school and students revising and attending tutorial classes after school in order to keep up with the exam- oriented teaching, it is unsurprising that students merely care about their future career, comparing to fulfilling the urgent deadlines lying right in front of them, and invest little time to discover their true dreams. The Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups, a youth organisation concerned about the career planning of youngsters, conducted a survey after the public examination, in which over 75% of respondents express that they have only begun to research on university subjects at the verge of taking their study leaves. We all understand that hardly can students grasp a comprehensive view of the huge variety of possible choices for their university majors in such a short period of time. Then, may I sincerely ask our respected opponents a few questions: what is the purpose of forcing students to seamlessly promote to university if they have not even clarify their own directions? Isn’t it disheartening to see generations of graduates wasting their precious teenage years, struggling among obscure academic papers and demanding assignments for the knowledge that they have zero interest in? What is the point of navigating in the ocean along a route that we know it will never lead us to our desired destination? Apparently, a gap year is certainly necessary for students as a time for reflection, to learn about themselves and figure out their own dreams, rather than entering the university knowing that they would be tormented for years due to a hastily-made decision.

In conclusion, our side have solid grounds supporting the motion ‘that students should be given a gap year before the start of university to explore their own interests’. Students should be granted their deserved resting time to improve their mental well-being, enrich their experiences apart from academics and carefully considering their career planning. Therefore, today’s motion must stand. Thank you.

---
#### Sample 2

Good morning adjudicators, ladies and gentlemen,

Today our motion is ‘that secondary school graduates should be given a gap year before embarking on their university journey’. As the representative of the affirmative side, I believe that today’s motion must under all circumstances justifiable. Before elucidating my arguments, I would like to first clarify the main purpose of having a gap year and why it is beneficial to secondary school graduates. Our side would like to make clear that a gap year is diametrically different from an annual holiday in which one is given abundant room for taking a long break from the overwhelming workload. Rather, it is a means for one to take concrete steps to explore and realize his own dreams before furthering his studies in the university. Our side firmly believes that the gap year is so meaningful that every secondary school graduate should give it a go.

First and foremost, having a gap year before one furthers his studies in the university is conducive to figuring out one’s genuine dreams and potentials. Before I elaborate, allow me to raise a couple of questions for the opposition side’s consideration: do you genuinely understand what your personal interest is and which path you should opt for at the time of your secondary graduation? Do you have a firm decision of which programme to enroll in? Are you sure you are passionate about the subjects you have put in your JUPAS choices? Our precious opponent, we both know that the answers are, lamentably, in the negative. Let’s confess the downside of our education system: rather than planning our career paths from day one, schools have merely been accentuating the importance of getting good grades in our exams. No one ever tells us which path to opt for, and the stark truth is that everyone is merely clinging to society’s expectations, with all high-flyers ending up in law and medical schools. Aren’t these pathetic in such a modern society, when we human beings are supposed to live our lives to the fullest and have our dream materialised? Having a gap year, therefore, is a perfect antidote to this problem. Not only can graduates gain more job experience by taking part in some apprenticeship programmes in the fields they may be interested in, but they can also travel around the globe and gain a better understanding of the culture of different countries. With a broadened horizon, they will have a firm grasp of what they are genuinely passionate about. On the contrary, if one studies in the university directly before confirming whether they are enthusiastic about that discipline, it may happen that they end up wasting the whole four years reading something they are apathetic about. As we can see clearly, having a gap year is the fundamental step one should take in a bid to make clear about his goals.

The opposition side may contend that, they should complete the tertiary education as soon as possible and should not have their valuable time wasted by having a gap year. While we do not deny that the acquisition of a university degree is essential, our team asserts that to recognize one’s dream is definitely of higher urgency and importance. Have you all wondered how sinister the consequences can be should one fail to recognize his own dream before embarking on their university journey? It is highly likely that he gets into a subject which he is apathetic about! It will be too late for one to stay ignorant until his university life has already begun! By then, he will have to drop out from schools, or worse still, have four years of university life filled with unhappiness, pain and torture! Having such lamentable trajectory is definitely the last thing we would like to see! Nonetheless, all these could have been avoided from the outset if one had been given a gap year prior to the commencement of university, during which they are given ample time to stay mindful with themselves, appreciate their own desires, and discover their lifelong goals. Our respected opponent, we would like to highlight that we are not proposing one to skip the university after the gap year; instead, what we are suggesting here is that both of them should co-exist harmoniously, with gap year being followed by the university life. Isn’t it absurd for you to reject such a proposal, which caters for both individuals’ pursuit of dreams as well as career pathways?

Our dearest opponent, you may also argue that, the university would simply work as well as having a gap year if one aimed at exploring his future possibilities. This may not be surprising though, as university does offer students a high degree of flexibility with loose study schedule. On the face of it, students are given much room to discover their own enthusiasm and passion. Nonetheless, our side is afraid that the opposite side does not have a comprehensive picture of what university students are faced with authentically. Our precious opponent, let’s be realistic – do students genuinely have such abundant time for self-discovery given their hectic extra-curricular activities? We all know that university students never merely complete their degree curriculum with a marginal pass – not only should one acquire excellent academic standing, one also has to simultaneously brush up his technical knowledge, through partaking in tons of case competitions, internships and group projects throughout the university life. Many are also actively engaged in hall and society activities, taking up essential leadership roles with a view to enhancing their overall competitive edge. Considering all the above, may I once again ask our dearest opponent – do you really think that they have sufficient time to explore their potential?
To conclude, our side believes that a gap year serves as a perfect avenue for students to explore his own potential and prevent all adverse consequences of choosing a wrong discipline in the university. Today’s motion must be under all circumstances justifiable. Thank you!
