#### Sample 1

Your year group has been asked to produce student essays about yourselves for a school display on graduating students. Think of three events that show significant moments in your school life and write your essay. Write one paragraph for each event, describing the moments and explaining why that moment is significant to you. You may write on these three events:
- Your first school day
- Christmas singing contest
- Graduation Day

---
Time flies in the blink of an eye and now every tick of the clock is bringing the graduation closer. Although the past six years passed like a sweet dream, the memories are real. All those good old days have transformed the once innocent boy into a mature man who is ready to navigate any obstacles. Rewind to the past and we’ll discover there are moments that send me pangs of nostalgia...... Marking the start of my voyage in this school is the student photo taken on the first school day. I remember the day I entered the school gate with tiny but heavy steps, exploring a whole new world in this campus. Everything was obscured by a fog of mystery and I had to step into the unknown as a freshman. Without the companionship of friends, travelling along the corridor alone was the only choice left for me. The corridor was so long that it seemed like an endless tunnel and I started getting butterflies in my stomach on my way to phototaking. Yet, I had to act like amature secondary student so I mustered the courage to maintain my poise. Swallowing the trepidation, I took my very first photo in this school. “3,2,1, smile.” I squeezed an awkward smile which was tinged with a bit of apprehension and a pulse of anticipation and my journey had since begun.

Since then, I met a lot of friends and cultivated strong bonds with them — I never ever had to walk along the corridor by myself again. Our unbreakable friendship is reflected in the next photo taken on the Christmas singing contest. Inside the frame, we were holding hands in hands. Everyone was bearing the brightest grin on stage, presenting our fruit of hard work to the audience. Though we were no prodigies in music, we were determined to create an original song that carried our memories in the past six years. We formulated the melody notes by notes, revising it thousands of times and making modifications to perfect the music. We joined our emotions together and translated them into words, writing all the tears and laughter into the lyrics. Finally, a song named “Butterfly Effect” was born. Just like the meaning of its name that a small effect can trigger a series of events, our encounter had altered our life trajectories. Our fates had intertwined together since the day we met. Our fellowship had become so deep that we became inseparable buddies. By looking at the photo, I can still feel the music humming in my ears and the lyrics lingering on my lips. Thanks to your companionship along the journey, I am no longer lonely.

However, every journey has a destination and my secondary school life is no different. Stating the end of my school fantasy is the photo taken on the graduation day. On that memorable day, we were not only tossing our graduation caps into the blue sky, but also throwing away the years of past paper drilling, letting go of the nights we spent for preparing the examinations, discarding the days when we spared no efforts to strive for a place in universities, forgetting the moments we fought against the formidable DSE together as the most supportive team, and finally, saying goodbye to our wonderful secondary school life. Graduation was indeed the finale of this journey: after this day, we would all drift apart and head for our own destinations instead of a united one. This was the last moment that we work for a common goal and thus such a milestone deserves a chance to be here, enjoying all the spotlight.

This life journey has been a long way: we have come so far and done so much that we go from greet to graduation, from sobs to smiles. All these cherishable memories have converted into the fertilisers that make us exuberant. We are no longer the buds which are shy to shine but the flowers which dare to blossom; we are no longer the caterpillars that crawl on the ground with no hope but the butterflies that dance in the wildest dreams. Now we are about to turn over a new chapter in our lives and there are much more episodes ahead of us. Fascinating as the new chapters may be, this story will forever be the best memory in my life.

---
#### Sample 2

You are graduating from F6 soon, and as the publication secretary of the Student Union of your school, you are writing a yearbook entry to be published to all schoolmates.

Write on:
1. One of the most memorable experience you have encountered among the six years of your secondary school life, and
2. Your dream, which may be about your career, who you would like to become, or how you would like to change the world.

---
**My motivational booster – Miss Josephine!**

Glancing at the series of class photos 6C took truly dragged me down the memory lane of reminiscent. All the genuine emotions started pouring out, I simply cannot comprehend them all. From an innocent sophomore to a mature highschooler, I can still clearly recall each and every snippet of the journey. Looking back, I was this
shy and introverted ‘toddler’ when I first stepped foot into the campus. All the fear and doubts shoved me right in the face that secondary school is a process of the transformation of ‘little, ugly ducklings’. I thought: Attaining admission to such a prestigious school equals to skyrocketing expectations. Do I even deserve to be here?

Having my mouth as well as my vocal cord tightly sealed, I decided to isolate myself and planned on teetering my way through the six years. Just when I thought it was the end of the day, my class teacher, Miss Josephine, reached out to me and offered heartfelt words of encouragement which motivated me to step out of the boundaries and constraints that I have originally established for myself. Up till this day, her words are still remarkably indoctrinated in my heart, she said, “It’s okay. It takes time to adapt to unfamiliar faces and to immerse yourself in an unprecedented ambience. A myriad of opportunities are here awaiting, it is up to you whether you are willing and ready to grasp them all. Now take a deep breath and reach out to your neighbour!”

This is how I got to know my first acquaintance here and how I learnt to overcome my inner fears. I have never gotten the opportunity to express my gratitude to Miss Josephine, what seemed to be so minuscule and minimal actually means the world to us students! Thank you for demonstrating what courage is and teaching me a lifelong lesson!

**My white coat aspiration**

Hardly can I count the number of times I have envisioned myself standing on stage at the White Coat Inauguration Ceremony, taking an oath to serve the populace in front of my beloved ones. Unlike many who may have life beyond high school all mapped out, all I know is I have always wanted to become a doctor upon graduation. Being a doctor is such a worthwhile and purposeful occupation. Becoming a physician equals to taking away pain and sufferings of others. Alongside providing medications and healthcare treatments, a physician also acts as a fountain of exuberance. I want to provide both patients and their families hope and anticipation, something that they can look forward to. Amidst gloomiest days, a doctor will be bringing a ray of sunshine to the dreary days.

I would also like to initiate and establish a charitable foundation which aims at providing free of charge medical services to patients with financial hardships and struggling to afford the extortionate amount of treatment expenses. Irrespective of financial status and background, everyone deserve equal treatment. With a heart to serve, I will strike for egalitarianism and equity among all. The foundation will also be collaborating with ‘Doctors without borders’ targeting paediatric patients from 3rd world countries including but are not limited to Central African Republic, Niger, and South Sudan.

“It takes courage, a little magic, and a wild soul to follow your dreams”, a saying well said from sagacious ideologists. We can never predict nor foresee the future, but all we can do is to constantly remind ourselves of the rationale behind the establishment of our goal and approach it step-by-step, little-by-little. Hustle, grind, strive, whatever it takes, we will get there eventually and morph into our ideal selves while reaching for your own desired pinnacle. Schoolmates, don’t hesitate to dream wild and become who you have always aspired to be!
