You work for Planet Smart, a company that sells eco-friendly products. Your company wants to set up a pop-up shop inside a shopping centre for 3 months to promote your products to new customers.
Complete the application form below.

Company Name:
Products: 
Events:

---
Founded in 2020, we are a local company that strives to promote environmental conservation through selling eco-friendly products such as clothes and bags. Our founder Chris Wong was deeply concerned about the waste disposal and the ensuing land pollution problem in Hong Kong. Inspired by UK-based company ConnectEarth, Chris decided to bring the idea of producing biodegradable clothing to Hong Kong. Our company’s mission is to raise the public’s awareness of environment protection. We hope to change consumers’ behaviour through three Es, namely education, empowerment and execution. We have also strived to maintain an online presence by promoting our latest products and sharing our eco-friendly products features as well as our production line on social media

Our best-selling product is undoubtedly the “BioJean” – our latest edition of biodegradable jeans. We have noticed that a lot of jeans in the market are environmentally unfriendly in many ways, from production to consumption to disposal throughout the entire life cycle of the product. For instance, a lot of waste water is produced in the colouration procedures of the jeans. What makes the situation worse is that these jeans are commonly not made durable given the continuous demand for new designs. In particular, many teenagers hopped on the bandwagon and embraced the trend of fast fashion, which means that users may need to replace jeans with new one frequently. These jeans eventually end up in landfills. Since they are non-biodegradable, they will only aggravate the already-severe land pollution problems. Through modifying the denim’s chemical structures in the jeans, together with the addition of fungal components, the jeans can be more easily degraded by bacteria in soil. An additional benefit that came to our surprise during testing phase is that these materials together can make the product more durable, stretchable and less prone to damage. Moreover, we have strict guidelines on colouration and waste disposal during our production that we adhere to, such as the use of harmless dyes and filtering any residues in a multi-layer system before disposal into areas permitted by the government. We are delighted to have received positive responses from our customers, claiming that the jeans are more durable than other jeans and the texture even has an edge over traditional jeans.

To echo with our favourite product – BioJean, we plan to hold jean sewing workshops in our store where participants have the chance to feel the texture of our jeans and understand more about the rationale and production process behind our biodegradable jeans. Each participant will be given a piece of jean cloth and will follow the instructions of the tutors to complete the sewing tutorial. In the meantime, we will demonstrate how sewing can be achieved more easily with our modified denim in our jeans. Afterwards, our participants will have to take part in an online quiz with questions related to our products and contributions to the environment. 80% or above accuracy will grant participants a 30% off discount on immediately-purchased products. Through this event, we hope to achieve the aims of educating the public on eco-friendly products, empowering them to be confident about making lifestyle changes and eventually executing their plans. We are confident that this event will capture window-shoppers’ attention and we anticipate a successful opening in the shopping mall. 