> <u>Learning English through Popular Culture</u>
> Asian singers and movie stars are gaining popularity all over the world and are no longer appealing only to Asian audiences. Write an article for your school newspaper explaining why Asian stars are gaining popularity in Western countries. Give a title to your article.

<p style="text-align: center;">Asian Pop Culture: Drivers Behind Asian Stars’ Irresistible Appeal to Westerners</p>

The showbiz-industry, in both the fields of music and film, was once dominated by the west, with all those Hollywood movies breaking box-office record and songs sung by Western bands like One Direction sweeping across the streets like a strain of flu. It is not until recently that the tide has vanished into thin air – Asian movie stars and singers are gaining traction and an unprecedented popularity among western audience, taking over the showbiz-industry from the hands of western stars. Let’s delve deep into the drivers behind the rise of Asian stars, and what contributes to their increasing influence in the world.

First and foremost, the rising popularity of Asian stars has much to do with the refreshing nature of the works they produced. Gone are the days when Western audience were obsessed with / were attracted to / were drawn to the same genres of songs and films produced by singers or artists from their own countries. With the influx of a deluge of sorrowful ballad loved songs sung by singers like Taylor Swift or Ed Sheeran, Westerners have been so fed up with these repetitive love songs that that begin to crave for songs that are rather different and novel. This has ultimately given rise to PSY’s ‘Gangnam Style’, causing a stir all over the globe. Since then, people start to have a craze for K-pop – many teens are no stranger to the dance moves of Blackpink’s Flowers and BTS’ Boy with Luv. As we can see, it is no longer the emotional love songs that capture listeners’ ears. Instead, it is the upbeat nature, together with the pulsating beats and cheesy dance that help Asian singers like PSY to win over listeners’ heart, as these elements are deemed as rather refreshing, energetic and youthful, but not as conventional as most songs produced in the western music industry.

Standing alongside the refreshing nature of the works produced by Asian artists, integral to their irresistible appeal to westerners is also these singers’ and stars’ stellar performance in their works. Many Asian stars, as well as singers are so versatile and talented in their field that audience from Western countries gradually discover these stars as underrated gems. One vivid example is undoubtedly Michelle Yeoh, our Oscar Best Actress Academy Award Winner whose exceptional performance in the movie ‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’ win over worldwide recognition and acclaim from audience all over the world. There is no shortage of such talented artists in the music field, of course. BTS, the Korean boy band whose songs have accumulated billions of views on YouTube, has garnered an immense fanbase not only in Asian countries but also in Western countries like the US and Canada, for their members’ versatility of adapting at singing, dancing and rapping in tandem. Equally talented is another band Blackpink, whose dancing skills are so mind-blowing that many international reality shows even invite them to be judges for the new blood dancers. These artists’ stellar performance has eventually led them to all-time high popularity, helping them break into the western market.

Last but not least, globalization also plays an indispensable role in paving the way for the escalating fame of Asian artists. It is of paramount importance that Asian artists must have their innovative works and talents to capture the heart of western viewers, but this can never be done without the channel for them to have their songs and films exposed to foreign audience. This sparks volume about the importance of globalization. The emergence of a variety of streaming platforms under globalization open a gateway for viewers and audience to explore not only songs and films produced from their own countries, but also those from Asian countries. Access are widely opened – viewers can simply click a button on Netflix and start binge watching ‘Crash Landing On You’ or ‘Goblin’, while music lovers can have a taste of ‘Lemon’, sung by Japanese singer Kenshi Yonezu on Spotify. Geographical barriers are broken in the era of globalization, enabling westerners to have a peak into their rather unfamiliar Asian Pop Cultural, providing them a channel to discover these underrated gems in the meantime.

As an Asian, it is indeed delightful for me to witness our singers and stars gaining fame in western countries as what they deserve. Yet, it is never a battle between the East and West when it comes to the dominance in showbiz-industry, it ought to be more delightful for us to welcome the advent of an entertainment industry which showcases inclusiveness towards artists, which embraces differences among artists of different races, and provides equal opportunities for all.