> Your school magazine is going to include a special feature on mental health. Recently, one of your friends was suffering from depression. Write an article for the school magazine about your friend’s depression and how he/she overcame it. Give advice to others on how to help fight depression.

<p style="text-align: center;">Ways to confront stress directly!</p>

Plagued by the insurmountable stress and can’t find a way out? This is probably the daily life of nowadays teenagers. If you are also one of those who have no idea about how to get rid of your pressure, please stay tuned and read on!

The very first step you should take to get rid of stress is to identify its sources. How can you remove the stressors if you can’t even recognise their roots? Therefore, next time when you feel stressed, instead of writing it off as temporary, try to keep track of it. Have no clue how to begin? A stress journal will certainly help. By means of keeping a daily log of every stressful moment, you can see patterns and common theme in the stressors. As such, devising a strategy to deal with the stress is now possible, so do be reminded to give it a shot!

After identifying the stressors, it is time to take concrete actions, and so the 3As – “avoid, adapt and accept” may work wonders! I believe that after you analyse your own stress journal, most of you will realise that it is your unnecessary worries that give rise to such anxiety. So why don’t you dwell less on your own problems? Our brains have limited capacity for processing information. The more we have on our plate, the more likely we are overwhelmed by the workload, and the more stressed we will feel! So, do drop the tasks that don’t really matter to the bottom of your to-do list. You’ll be relieved without these burdens!

If stress is unavoidable, then you should consider adapting to it! With the ultimate goal to strive for perfections, it is common for us to feel pressurised. (I bet your stress journal can tell as well!) Yet, to achieve perfections is a mission impossible! After all, we are no saints but only human beings who are doomed to make mistakes! Therefore, what you should do is to accept, if not embrace your own imperfections, and be less harsh on yourself! Equally important is to set reasonable standards for yourself and learn not to be guilty of ‘being mediocre’.

But what should we do if we can’t adapt to it? Here comes another handy piece of advice: you have to learn to accept your failure. Lots of things in life are beyond our control, be they others’ perceptions of ourselves or the future events that are unpredictable to us. Trying to have control over the uncontrollable is such a silly behaviour! Nobody in his right mind should have his energy drained over the unpredictable, and neither should you. So just focus on the parts you can control and stay optimistic! They are the best response you can come up with. Even if, lamentably, you’re confronted with challenges, view them as opportunities for personal growth as opposed to another round of ordeal: being an optimist occasionally won’t bite!

Life is never a smooth sailing – stress must be there awaiting for us no matter what stage we’re in. Sooner or later, you have to accept its existence and learn to live with it. It’s our choice to make it a boon or a bane. It’s time we all grapple each stressful moment to learn.
