> It is known that kids have little ability to take good care of themselves and thus parents should monitor their safety most of the time. However, from parents’ perspectives, to monitor kids all the time is impractical.
 > Argue for or against the motion that ‘parents who leave their kids under the age of 15 unattended at home should be punished.’ Write a debate speech.

Chairperson, adjudicators and fellow opponents,

Good afternoon. The motion today is ‘that it is necessary to punish parents who leave their kids under 15 unattended at home.’ As a representative of the affirmative side, I strongly believe that today’s motion must stand, for the very reason that children’s safety should be the fundamental responsibility of any parents.

The first and most important point our side would like to make is that parents should under no circumstances evade the responsibility of taking care of their own kids. Had they been unwilling to take up such duties, they should not have given birth to the kids from the outset. Parents are supposed to bear a burdensome duty of care towards their kids, be vigilant to their kids’ safety at all times, and warn themselves of the sinister consequences of having insufficient control over their kids. Just in the last week, we got a five-year-old lovely and innocent girl fell off from her flat lamentably. An intentional suicide? No! The girl was just so inquisitive that she opened the windows and attempted to sit on it, where she failed to strike a balance and fell off! Had there been someone at home and looked after her, such dangerous acts would have been prevented! This lamentable incident perfectly illustrates the severity of an inadequate monitoring from parents! Our side utterly understands parents’ practical concerns that they cannot but work long hours owing to the huge living costs, only to have sufficient funds for family’s expenditure. However, parents must weigh the importance of the lives of their kids against having decent income.

Our fellow opponents, you may argue that, with such enormous pressure in our community, many families have no choice but to be dual-career, with both parents seeking full-time jobs. Otherwise, the grassroots will fail to sustain their minimal living needs. However, any responsible parents should have taken the financial circumstances into consideration before making the decision to give birth to their child. It is the parents who decide to have their child born with limited resources and economic power in the first place. They should not profess, when problems start to arise after giving birth to kids, that they have to work for money. It is time they ponder about the issue seriously – do they want to be more financially-powered at the expense of their kids’ invaluable lives? Our opponent side may further argue that, even if the parents are at fault owing to their carelessness in leaving their kids unattended at rare occasions, they should not receive punishments, lest the kids would have no parents to take care of. While our side recognises that kids barely need a family with parents that surround them with love, warmth and care, we believe that kids should stay away from irresponsible parents. Thus, parents who fail to discharge their fundamental duty of care should be heavily punished. This is necessary to impose a deterrent effect on any parents in our city: without serious penalties, parents may still omit the seriousness and leave their kids at home occasionally. Also, criminal punishments do not necessarily mean that parents will be imposed with custodial sentences such as imprisonment – the Hong Kong law has got many forms of criminal punishments such as community service orders, fines, and suspended sentences. With the education programmes targeted at parents breaking the law, they will be conscious of their own mistakes, genuinely learn a lesson and then rectify them in the future. As such, the kids’ well- being can be more safeguarded in the long run.

All in all, penalties should be imposed on parents who fail to exercise due diligence or take reasonable steps to ensure the safety of kids, which is their rudimentary obligation. This is why today’s motion must stand. Thank you!