Argue for or against the motion that ‘parents who leave their kids under the age of 15 unattended
at home should be punished.’ Write a debate speech.

---
Good morning adjudicators, ladies and gentlemen,

Today our debate motion is ‘parents who leave their kids under the age of 15 unattended at home should be punished’. As the captain of the affirmative team, I hold a fervent belief that today’s motion must under all circumstances justifiable.

Fundamental to my stance are several reasons, with parents leaving their kids unattended at home posing a menace to their safety being the first and foremost. I suppose we do not need an expert to convince us that kids are so immature and naive that they are incapable of differentiating between right and wrong, causing them to be prone to a multitude of perils, with the tragic news happening to an innocent girl last week being a flawless illustration. According to a news report from the SCMP, a 5-year-old girl was so inquisitive that she climbed out of the windows of her apartment, causing her to be on the verge of death. But for the quick discovery of her neighbors, she would have fallen off the building. The above case is nothing more than a tip of an iceberg. Our dearest opponents, isn’t it lamentable that kids’ life be threatened at such a tender age? In stark contrast, by means of punishing parents, not only will they be dissuaded from leaving their kids unattended at home, but they will also be instilled with the importance of being vigilant of the safety of their kids and thus devote more time to their safety. In light of this, punishing parents who leave their kids unattended at home is the cornerstone of averting the situation from going beyond remedy.

Our respected opponents, you may assert that parents are merely sparing no pains to work in a bid to climb up the social ladder and provide quality life for their kids, as a result of which, they should never be punished. Prima facie, the above claim sounds plausible. Nonetheless, under closer scrutiny, it does not hold much water. While the lofty goal of providing a better living for their kids is commendable itself, it is worth noting that having adequate parental care prevails over having a high quality of living. Ladies and gentlemen, envisage yourself being a 3-year-old child, is your living environment or the support of your parents more essential to you? I bet you weren’t that naive. Definitely the latter, right? Our side firmly believe that in dearth of the care of parents, never will kids grow healthily or happily. Worse still, they may even go astray and morph into unlawful citizens in the long run, for their parents cannot supervise the materials that they are getting access to on a regular basis. Seen in this light, parents who leave kids unattended at home should be punished given that it will pose far-reaching and catastrophic consequences to them.

Our dearest opponents, you may also contend that parents who leave their children unattended at home should not be punished as kids will be deprived of parental care, not least when they are in desperate need of the care of their parents at such a tender age. As a result, parents should be imbued with the repercussions of their sinister acts as opposed to punishing them. The above assertion, though of certain validity at first glance, is indeed fallacious. It is worth noting that the government has been making every endeavor to preclude parents from leaving their kids unattended at home throughout the years, whether it be education programs or advertisements. Had these efforts been that effective, we would not have seen a plethora of tragic news regarding parents’ negligence towards their kids throughout the years. By virtue of this, only through punishing these parents could they be deterred from leaving their kids unattended at home.

In a nutshell, by no means should parents who leave their kids unattended at home be tolerated. It is high time penalties be imposed on them, lest more kids be put in jeopardy. It is our earnest belief that today’s motion must stand. Thank you.