> Some people think that social media platforms have facilitated the development of relationships. On the other hand, some people think that such platforms have resulted in more shallow connections.
> - Write a debate speech.
> - Argue against the motion “Social media platforms are the places for enhancing social relationships.”

Good morning respected adjudicators, my learned friends from the affirmative and ladies and gentlemen in the audience. I hereby argue against the motion that social media platforms are the places for enhancing social relationships by presenting two main arguments and a rebuttal against the affirmative’s propositions.

To begin with, social media platforms hinder genuine communications. Should we step back and think about how we make acquaintances at school, it is without a doubt that face-to-face interactions are the key to reinforcing friendships. Try to recall the beautiful moments when you share your innermost feelings with your buddies and hang around with them at the school campus to enjoy a little escape from chemical equations or comprehension exercise. It is not hard to realize that your tone and facial expressions are equally crucial for your peers to interpret your emotions and thoughts. Face-to-face communications enable people to convey their messages more effectively, enhancing intimacy and hence social relationships. On the other hand, people can use fake names on social media sites. Moreover, messages in the form of words and emojis, which are ambiguous in the way that different people can interpret them differently, are prevalent on social media sites. Despite being able to send messages in the form of audios, the inability to look at the speakers’ facial expressions renders the expression of meaning less effective. Given that it is an uphill battle to have genuine communications on social media sites, they should not be considered the seedbed for enhancing social relationships.

Besides hindering genuine communications, social media platforms have also become tools for scammers to generate monetary and sexual benefits. Lily Wong, a student of an accountancy degree at a private university in Malaysia, is reported by South China Morning Post to fly business class, sport handbags by Chanel and Hermes, take foreign trips once every two weeks and receive US$10,000 every month from her 40-year-old sugar daddy, whom she met on The SugarBook website. In another case, a 45-year-old married man who is a user of the sugar-dating site SeekingArrangement, was reported to have sex with a 15-year-old sugar baby. These examples show that some people expect more than just companionship on social media sites. Darren Chan, the founder of The SugarBook, discovered that males generally seek for beauty and sex while females go for money when choosing their life partners. This explains why soliciting sex and money is rife on social media platforms. It is universally acknowledged that relationships built on sex and possessions are not firm and robust. Serving as the medium for the provision of materials and sexual enjoyment, social media platforms should be regarded as the places for transactions rather than boosting social relationships.

The affirmative supported their claim by suggesting that social media platforms enable users to reveal their authentic selves so that others could gain a genuine understanding of those users, enhancing intimacy and social relationships. However, revealing authentic selves on social media platforms does not inevitably strength the bonding between people. The anonymity on social media platforms implies that one can release unverified information easily to the public. Consider an incident in 2018 in which a scammer named Karen posted sophistically edited photos and fake personal information on a dating site based in Hong Kong to lure males into having dinner with her in a restaurant which she received commission from. Having appointments with eight males in just a night, she was dubbed a “time management guru” by the news media. This incident shows that while the intention for creating social media sites is to enable users to reveal their genuine side, they can in fact produce fabricated information on those sites. Under this line of thinking, hardly can their followers understand those users thoroughly. Worse still, the fabricated information could be manipulated to deceive others. In this case, can social media platforms still enhance intimacy and reinforce social relationships? The answer is a definite no.

As the adage goes, “Nothing is impossible to a willing heart. ”Should the government be willing to closely monitor and scrutinize social media platforms, they could be innocuous without posing any deleterious influence on society. It is our earnest belief that today’s motion must not stand. Thank you!