It is found that schoolmates in your school are in severe lack of morality. You believe that the school has a great role to play for enhancing students’ morality. Write a letter to the principal giving you views that our school should enhance students’ morality.

---
Dear Ms Lee,

I am writing to express my opinion on our students’ declining morality and the desperate need to train their morality. Walking along the corridor, we teachers are not surprised to see students littering, hear them saying foul languages, or even witness them fighting with one another. It is really worth noting that students pay no heed to their behaviour at school, not to mention outside the campus. Not bearing such a worrying sight, I am going to shed light on the three reasons why the school authority should prioritize cultivating students’ morality.

The fundamental reason contributing to my suggestion is that the school should shoulder the responsibility to prevent them from going astray. Given that schools are an indispensable socializing agent, they should shoulder the responsibility to instil essential knowledge and moral value into adolescents. In addition, in lack of critical thinking skills, students are vulnerable to problematic belief and disobedience of tedious rules. Should the youngsters run into someone who impart wrongful values to them, they are prone to go astray. It goes without saying that the responsibility of nurturing our future pillars falls on the school. In light of this, it seems more urgent and crucial for the school, as well as we teachers, to ensure that students can act in accordance with the ethics in society. None of us would like to see one of our students become a member of gang, smoking and disobeying the laws, would we? Owing to teachers’ respected status, the young will be less reluctant to abide by what teachers say. On Parents’ Day, a wealth of concerned parents share with me that their children usually turn a deaf ear to their guidance, be it friendly or solemn. Having no idea on how to change their sons and daughters’ poor habits, a vast majority of them resort to seeking help from teachers. In view of this, it is incumbent on the school and teachers to stop the young from being influenced by the morally flawed, thereby nurturing their morality. This explains the significance of training students’ morality.

Besides, training students’ discipline goes a long way towards maintaining the school’s reputation. In the wake of soaring complaints as to our students’ misbehaviour, it has come to our realization that their misconduct has seriously disparaged the school’s reputation. Based on the complaints we have gathered from residents living in proximity of our school, we discover that students’ moral standards have fallen sharply. Many of them are criticised for being apathetic towards the needy in society, ranging from not giving seats to the needy on the bus to posing barbarous gestures to the pedestrians. With such inconsiderate and rude behavior of our students, it is little wonder that people question the school’s quality teaching, wreaking havoc on our reputation. To alleviate the current situation before it goes beyond remedy, it is suggested that we nurture students’ morality. Only by this measure can we ensure that their behaviour, be it at school or outside the campus, is up to par. Their enhanced morality can restore parents’ confidence to us, so that they can be more reassured to send their kids to study here. It is also believed that with the improved reputation of our school, more students will enrol in our school, fostering our long-term development.

Antagonists oppose this idea, claiming that students’ academic results always outweigh their ethical level. Granted, acquisition of knowledge plays a pivotal role in nurturing the intelligence of the young. However, what we should give precedence to at kids’ tender age is the indoctrination of value judgment into kids as opposed to a sea of academic knowledge. Should the defective moral values be deep-seated in their mind, hardly can we alter their wrongful mindset, despite rolling out harsh punishment or with sufficient help. According to a research conducted by Hong Kong Correctional Services Department, 75% of the prisoners admit that the reason why they fail to turn over a leaf is that their value judgment has already been entrenched in their mind for long and it is a tall order to fix their problematic value judgment when they become grown-ups. This demonstrates why moral education is of paramount importance at school, given that deeply ingrained concepts can scarcely be changed. To pave a path for our students to embrace their bright future, we should strictly bear no discrepancy in their moral values. To this end, it is wise for us to give priority to value education over imparting knowledge.

All in all, for the sake of our future pillars, the school is obliged to monitor and train their morality now without any delay. It is our sincere hope that all of our students can possess a successful and flawless future life, without going astray.

Mr Wong
Head of English Department